---
title: "FashionERN: Enhance-and-Refine Network for Composed Fashion Image Retrieval"
collection: publications
excerpt: 'TL;DR: This paper is about XXX.'
date: 2024-02-17
venue: 'AAAI'
paperurl: 'https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/27885/27795'
citation: 'Yanzhe Chen, Huasong zhong, Xiangteng he, Yuxin Peng, Jiahuan Zhou and Lele Cheng, "FashionERN: Enhance-and-Refine Network for Composed Fashion Image Retrieval", AAAI 2024.'
---

**Abstract:** The goal of composed fashion image retrieval is to locate a target image based on a reference image and modified text. Recent methods utilize symmetric encoders (e.g., CLIP) pre- trained on large-scale non-fashion datasets. However, the in- put for this task exhibits an asymmetric nature, where the reference image contains rich content while the modified text is often brief. Therefore, methods employing symmet- ric encoders encounter a severe phenomenon: retrieval re- sults dominated by reference images, leading to the over- sight of modified text. We propose a Fashion Enhance-and- Refine Network (FashionERN) centered around two aspects: enhancing the text encoder and refining visual semantics. We introduce a Triple-branch Modifier Enhancement model, which injects relevant information from the reference image and aligns the modified text modality with the target im- age modality. Furthermore, we propose a Dual-guided Vi- sion Refinement model that retains critical visual information through text-guided refinement and self-guided refinement processes. The combination of these two models significantly mitigates the reference dominance phenomenon, ensuring ac- curate fulfillment of modifier requirements. Comprehensive experiments demonstrate our approach’s state-of-the-art per- formance on four commonly used datasets.  
